Charged: Ides
by Brian McEvoy
Chapter 01

"It's not safe to use your real name anymore."

"You expect me to pick some super-hero name? Like what? Fantasmo Woman? Ultramazing Girl?"

"Sure, any of those are great," I said, "if you're a stripper."

"What do you call a girl who breaks everything?" She picked an empty soda can from the grass. We watched as the paint turned black then blistered. The tab dulled and fell away followed by the lid. Finally, it fractured at her fingers like a frozen soap bubble. “Destructo Lass? I kind of like that.”

I snorted under a laugh. “Very golden era sounding.”

“I don’t want anything like your name,” she said with finger quotes. “No offense, bro.”

“What’s wrong with it?” I asked. Elizabeth, Lizzy, Liz, my sister always said “No offense” when she said something offensive, or “I don’t want to alarm anyone,” when she wanted to freak people out.

“Nothing, but it doesn’t make any sense.” She picked a stick off the ground. “It’s like a race horse’s name or some weird billionaire's yacht.”

“So, there’s nothing,” I said around finger quotes, “wrong with it, but you hate it, and it doesn’t make sense.”

“Forget it.” She threw the stick over her should and walked to my car.

I rolled my eyes and went to the driver door. The car was locked, and the keys bulged in my jean pocket.

“Open the door, Dawson, or should I call you DesertIrish from now—”

“DON’T.” I slammed the roof of the car with the keys in my fist. “You can do what you want. You don’t have to have a name. I just think that it’s…”

“What?” she crossed her arms. "Afraid everyone is going to hear your code name?" Liz swept her arm behind her. The closest people was a little girl on a jungle gym.

“I get paranoid wh—”

“Yeah, I know,” she interrupted. She was staring at the deep scratches in the car’s otherwise perfect roof.

Lizzy lifted her shoulders and dropped them. “It's just …  my friends don't even know.” With a little energy, I made the scratches in the car’s paint disappear. The roof was perfect again. Lizzy watched but kept her arms crossed.

Liz rolled her head back. “So. If people don’t know about it then why do we need fake names?”

I didn't want to lift that fleece, but it was a good question. “Fair enough. I won't bug you again.”

She nodded, and her arms fell to her sides. 

“Maybe it’s just my thing,” I said.

“You and probably every comic book nerd. So, how did you get better?”

She meant my ability to do things like repair the paint on the car roof.

“Practice. Work.” I smiled. "Calories."

"Yeah, pudgy," she called me.

Liz and I could both fit on a folding chair. Our mom was slender, and her mom may have been a broom handle.

"I have an idea." Liz dropped her elbow down hard on the rearview mirror. I heard it snap. With another hard jab, it came off and hit the ground then glass particles chimed on the blacktop.

“Ahhh, fuckin’ aa!” She rubbed her elbow. “Got anything to repair my elbow?” she asked.

“Ask Charley when we get home.” Charley was our younger brother. He could fix people the way I restored cars.

“Yeah. He kind of lucked out there, didn’t he?” Liz said.

“Depends on how you look at it," I said.

“Yeah.” Charley could undo people's injuries, but they lost their memories too.

I walked around the car and picked up the rearview mirror. No one but my sister was watching. With some energy, I felt the mirror lose weight and disappear. It reappeared on my car with an unbroken mirror but still hanging at an angle. With a bit more effort, it righted itself and looked like it just rolled off the sales lot. After driving it for a year, it had ninety-nine miles on the odometer. If this car had memory, it would have forgotten about my sister's assault.

Lizzy said, “So I’ve got the opposite of that.” She picked up another stick, and it turned to brittle kindling in her hand. “Can you fix that yet?”

I picked up a scrap of bark and smears of dark powder covered my fingers. It smelled like the bottom of a refrigerator left unplugged for a month. As I held it, I felt space for energy so I pushed and it got heavier as the wood reformed in my hand and the dark dust disappeared from my fingertips. More and more power went in, but leaves wouldn’t regrow. “See,” I held the twig out to her, “I still can’t do living things. The leaves won’t regrow. This is just dead wood now. Even Charley can’t bring things back to life.”

“I think if I had powers like Charley’s,” she said, “I would go to the hospitals and cure people who were nice. You know, chat them up and see if they’re good people. Then just leave after healing them.”

“The nurses would get suspicious. Plus everyone you healed would essentially have amnesia," I said.

“Geez Dawson, I just want to help some people.”

“I know,” I said, “I know you would. I think Charley would too.”

Her eyes narrowed. “He doesn’t want to screw with people’s lives, Dawson. How would you feel if you woke up in a hospital bed, feeling dandy, and the nurses tell you that a few hours ago your legs were missing and you’d been in a coma for a week?”

“I get it," I said. "That would be weird. Don’t you think that’s better than not having legs?” I imagined a white-coated doctor tapping my leg and shaking his head. I cracked a smile.

“Yeah. What if you lost someone in an accident? What if your kid died and you didn’t even remember it? What if you woke up, feeling perfectly all right but your son was gone? Don’t you think that would cause some pretty messed up emotions?”

“Sure," I said, "but … isn't it still better than ALSO being messed up?” 

She looked at me with a cocked eyebrow.

All I could do was give a small shoulder shrug and say, “Who’s to decide what’s better? You and I can’t. Charley probably tosses every night wondering if he should be helping people at the hospital or leaving them alone.”

“I know what I would do,” Lizzy said fast.

I looked at her. “Really? I don’t think I do.”

She walked away from the car toward a baseball diamond. Maybe it was a softball field. I don’t know if there’s a difference. 

I pointed to the car and jingled my keys. "I thought we were leaving. Hello?" I followed Liz onto the grass.

When Liz got to the outfield, she sat down hard enough that she squeaked, then pulled up some grass, turned it to dust, and let it fall into the wind.

I stood so the sun wouldn’t be in her eyes. “Have you ever hit yourself with it?” I asked.

She looked up at me with her hand shading her eyes. "How do you mean?"

“Like, have you ever accidentally made some skin decompose?”

"Oh," she looked back at the ground and shook her head. 

“You don’t believe in animal testing, right?” 

She shook her head. "Eww. Don't even ask."

“Good.” I held out my left hand, palm down. “Try it on me a bit. Slowly. Be careful.”

“I don’t think that’s a good idea,” Lizzy smirked. “At least not unless you piss me off.”

I snorted. “You assaulted my brand-new Lexus. I should be pissed at you. Not the other way around.” We laughed. “Seriously, do it before I chicken out. Just a little area.”

Her eyes narrowed on my palm, and she scrunched up her face. 

The back of my hand itched like it had a crust of dried glue.

Chapter 02
I walked downstairs from my old bedroom. “Hey, Lizzy!” I called to the whole house. “Are we going to the park or what?”

Charley was at the bottom of the stairs. “It’s night, man.”

“Wait, what? How long was I asleep?” I checked my phone. It was eight at night.

“No, man. You and Liz already went to the park. Didn’t you read your note?”

“What note? Oh no! You mean…”

“Yeah,” Charley said to his feet.

"Thanks." I took a deep breath and walked back to my room. I could remember the park now, talking with Liz, she broke my mirror, and I fixed it. I restored the roof of my brand-new, two-year-old car. Liz was ripping up grass when I said she could test on me.

Beside my bed was a folded piece of notebook paper with my name on the outside. In my handwriting, I described everything I remembered from the park. "Liz put some energy into the back of my left hand it got itchy right away. Then it stopped itching except at the corners because it lost feeling. All the nerves must have been fried. It looked like a bruise at first, now it is just gray and kind of cold. The edges still itch. I passed out at the park because it got pretty intense and Liz drove me home. Charley said he would help. Remember to thank him. There are pictures in my phone."

I still owed Charley a real apology. Nothing was wrong with me, but my internal clock said it was two in the afternoon, not seven at night. Five hours were gone forever. I wouldn't be able to sleep tonight. This happened every time, but this must have been better than whatever happened I saw in my hand. I slowly ran fingertips over the backs of both my hands. Two. Perfectly normal. Hands. There was a little flaky patch on the backside of the left one, but it could have been my imagination.

I found the pictures of my hand taken in the passenger seat. There was a round gray patch, yellow at the outsides, from my thumb to pinkie finger. A bubble formed in my stomach and it turned a few times. That was my body. That was not cool.

Charley walked into my room. “Are you all right?”

I swallowed and handed him my phone. “Yeah. Could you delete those pictures? I don’t want them anymore. No wonder.”

“No wonder?” he asked.

“No wonder I asked you to back that stuff off of me.”

“No problem.” Charley handed my phone back. “There you go.”

“Thanks, man,” I said. "I always appreciate it."

He shrugged and tipped his head then cracked a smile. “I wish I could do what you do.” His eyes went to his feet.

“Fix, cars? You wish you could spend your days sitting in old beaters?”

He looked up. “Yeah, that too. You take care of Lizzy and me. And dad too.” Yeah, our dad.

“You’d do the same. For the family I mean.”

He nodded. “I would.”

Charley could make me smile no matter what. “Hey,” I said, “maaaaaybe you could get a job at the pound,” I said sarcastically, “and turn old, sick dogs into puppies so other people can adopt them.” He laughed with me.

“Orrrrrrr, you could get a job repairing watches and, here it comes,” he leaned in, “turn back time.”

“Ohhh, pun, triple point score!” I thought a second, “You could keep models looking young, forever, and then just keep giving them the same paycheck over and over until you fill a whole year’s worth of a magazine.”

Charley wrinkled his brow. “That barely makes sense.”

“It makes sense," I laughed. “So anyway, I was thinking of a street name for you. What about The Catcher?” I waited for his reaction. “Like The Catcher in the Rye.”

“Firstly Dawson, that’s a gay thing, which fine, whatever. Secondly, have you read that book? Because I haven’t.” His went back to his feet.

“No, I haven’t read it either,” I said. "He sounded cool."

He smiled a bit and looked up, “But it’s got a lot of mythology attached to it.”

“Oh, like what?” I asked.

He sighed, “I don’t know. It’s a pretty famous book.”

“Yeah, there’s that. I’ll keep thinking.” I didn’t know what else to say. At least Charley was on board with having a street name.

He looked around my room. “What were you thinking for dinner?”

It still felt like early afternoon to me, and I wasn’t ready for dinner. “Oh, um. I’m not feeling it. Just wanna order everyone a couple pizzas?”

“Sure.” Charley went to find Lizzy and have her call Gary’s Pizza with the order, then answer the door for him. He left the room with a twenty-dollar bill and two fives.

There were grass clippings on my pants from the park I didn’t remember visiting. They went in the hamper, and I put on a fresh pair. Downstairs, Liz and Charley were watching a reality show about the mundane lives of Hollywood stunt doubles. Who wants to hear about a stuntman who also loves to prune bonsai trees?

“Hey?” Lizzy said, but she wouldn't look at me. “How ya doing?” She smiled with her mouth but not her eyes. 

I smiled, and her eyes met mine. “Just peachy. It’s not the right time of day though. Did you order breadsticks? I guess I am kind of hungry.”

Charley shook his head.

Lizzy said, “No. Didn’t know you wanted any.”

I shrugged. “No biggie. Do we still have cold cuts?”

“You can have some of my pizza,” Charley said.

“What did you get?” I asked on my way to the kitchen.

“Sausage and pineapple.” Lizzy rolled her eyes. Those were dad’s favorite toppings.

The fridge had a few slices of deli meat and some cheese. I called over the door, “I might have a slice or two.”

“OK, cool,” Charley shouted back.

I started a sandwich with some rye bread I bought yesterday. It was the first time anyone else in the house had seen an unsliced loaf of bread. Our bread knife was used for the first time. The mustard was due for a bar mitzvah pretty soon but a little energy and it smelled all right.

This house used to have worn out shingles, a crooked chimney, three cracked windows, blue siding that looked more like dirt than the sky, squeaky floors and stairs, stained carpet, sunburnt walls and a front door that got lower to the ground as you got further from the hinges. Now all those things were “good as new.” Everything in the house looked like it was still under warranty. The acid green toaster, a relic from a different decade I had never seen, made toast like a champ now and the color was already retro. If it weren’t for the fabric coated wire, it could have come from the store this morning. The matching refrigerator used to keep me awake as a kid, but now I could sleep next to it. I felt a little homesick now that everything worked.

Was a twenty-year-old guy supposed to stare at the kitchen wall and think about the past?

The doorbell rang and I heard bare feet walk to the door on smooth, level hardwood floors.

When I was ten, the dishwasher wasn’t even plugged in. It just held some pots and pans that didn’t fit in the cupboard. Now it washed dishes.

I wrote “sammich stuff” on the shopping list and sat on the couch with everyone. A dry red maple leaf had come in with the pizza and sat on the shoe mat by the door.

“Did you bring plates?” Lizzy asked.

“For YOUR pizza?" I wiggled into place. "No, but I have my plate right here, sissy.” I held up the uneaten sandwich.

Charley got up from a leather lounge chair that used to sport duct tape and cigarette burns, then came back with two more plates. “Smart ass,” she said to me. “Thanks, Char” she said to Charley.

They each took two slices of pizza from the box on the coffee table. This coffee table was unremarkable because it had four legs, even paint with no chips and a shiny top with zero gashes.

“What are we watching?” I asked Lizzy who had the remote.

“Something about hunting ghosts, I think.”

“Think they’re real?” I asked.

Liz laughed. “No, they’re definitely implants!” She was referring to the overweight man cohosting the show, and we all laughed. 

Ha ha. “Think I should get mine done?” I asked.

“Get an ass implant too,” she said, “for some balance of course.”

Charley piped in, “Get ‘em big enough that you can bust the buttons off your shirt. Then fix it, people will love that.”

Liz laughed the hardest at that. Charley didn’t joke much, especially in a ribald way. He used that word once, and it struck me as a very Charley thing to say.

The laughter stopped when the front door opened. Dad was home.

"Woo. Smells like pizza!” He walked into the living room and glanced at the heavy cohost on television. They shared the same body type, but dad needed a shave and haircut, and a good job. He worked a regular 8-5 at a snow plow factory, and never came home before seven. He just crashed and woke up here. Without invitation or warning, he sat down between Lizzy and I then grabbed a slice of Charley’s pizza. “My favorite, thanks, guys.”

He smelled like he drank a beer with his shirt which was missing a button. I threw a little power at it without thinking, and the button was back in place. He had already eaten to the crust of his pizza.

“What are we watching?” he said with a full mouth.

Liz said, “Nothing. Just a show about ghosts or something. It's dumb.”

Charley watched his plate instead of the television.

“Aren’t you home early?” I asked. It wasn’t two in the afternoon as I thought. I sighed at myself.

“Nah, I’m not picking up hours at the shop anymore, so I only worked ‘til five.” He helped himself to another slice of Charley’s pizza. “Where are the pepper sprinkles?”

“I threw them out a few weeks ago,” Liz said. “They were old as hell. Do you want a plate or something?”

“I’ll put peppers on the shopping list,” Charley said.

"Ready for that plate?" Liz asked again. "You're making a huge fucking mess."

“You guys don’t know what you’re missing. Hot peppers with sweet pineapple is a fantastic combination. You mind doing the shopping tomorrow?” dad said and elbowed me hard enough to slide my sandwich across the plate. He wouldn't get paid until the end of the month.

“I shouldn’t drive a lot. I don’t have insurance on the car. I don’t need it, per say.”

“That’s bologna.” Even when he was drunk, he wasn’t a vulgar man. He spoke well of women, and he didn’t swear. “What if you get pulled over, they’ll ticket you for sure. Cops in this town aren’t forgiving, and you look like a college brat so they won’t be gentle. You get my drift, right?” He elbowed me again and I squeezed my sandwich from the top. Now it had a thumbprint but no nibbles.

My dad lugged snow plows across a factory floor all day. He was stronger than he knew. 

“I’ll call the insurance company in a bit,” I said.

“Kiddo, they’re closed.”

I sighed at myself again, and I caught Charley smirking at my mistake. “I mean in the morning.”

“Good, go through my company. Those insurance companies on TV with stupid gimmicks aren’t worth jack. Get insurance from someone you can see. Not a lizard.” He elbowed my sister, “Right, Lizzy?”

“Ugh, dad! Knock it off. That hurts. I’m going to my room.” She tossed her plate on top of a pizza box and walked off with both.

Dad watched Liz go. “Well, excuse me.” He rolled his eyes, took another piece of pizza and tried to watch a commercial about a local magic show tomorrow at Riverfront Park.

I managed two bites of my sandwich and set the plate down. “Which insurance company do you use?”

“American Time. ‘Merican." Hehe. His eyes were only half open.

“I’ll call…in the morning.” He had a point about getting pulled over. If I was in an accident, I could fix the cars myself and pretend there was no harm. If I got pulled over, I’d be looking at a ticket and a fine.

“Atta boy. What’s with this guy?” He pointed at the fat cohost, “He an expert or something?”

“He’s a national ghost hunter and a professor at a college in Maine,” Charley said.

“That’s just ridiculous. If I found out I was in a class taught by someone who hunted ghosts I’d walk right out.” Dad gulped a pizza crust and leaned back on the couch.

Charley put his plate down. “He works at a paranormal research college actually.”

“Uh huh. Ever seen a ghost?” dad asked.

Charley and I shook our heads.

“When I was younger, before I had you guys, I saw a family of ghosts. My buddy, Joey, and I were fishing off his parent’s dock. It was pretty late, and we snuck a few beers because it was the cabin. Everyone drinks at Joey’s. So, we were putting bait on by moonlight and casting into a nice little patch of weeds. I remember we caught more little perch that night than anything I’d ever seen. Anyway, Joey drops a beer in the lake. It’s not open, so we both get on our hands and knees to fish it out of the lake, but something’s not right.” He paused. “But the reflection in the water wasn’t Joey and me, it was this old family, like a mom and a dad and two kids. They were wearing nice old clothes, and she had an old sun umbrella. They weren’t haunting or anything, just looking like they were having a day out at the lake. They didn’t look ghostly. In fact, they were full color. Swear to heaven. Joey saw the same thing. We watched for a solid five minutes. Weren’t scared or anything. They never looked at their reflection or us.”

I thought he was telling the truth. Who knows if that wasn’t a time abnormality caused by someone else with powers. Maybe someone was playing a trick with time and space. Perhaps he was a dumb drunk teenager.

Dad started to nod off. I grabbed my plate and put it in the dishwasher. Charley did the same and put the last slice of pizza in foil with most of my sandwich. “What do you think?” Charley asked. “About the story.”

I shrugged my shoulders. “It might be true. Powers?”

He grunted. “Could be. Who knows.”

“I probably shouldn’t drive you two to school. No insurance and all.”

“Oh, all right. That’s fine.”

We heard dad peel himself off the couch and heard his work boots go up the stairs for his nightly shower. Lizzy shut her bedroom door which was next to the bathroom.

“Wanna play some Call of Duty?”

I smiled. “Let’s do this, bro. Waaait, do you have any homework?”

“Probably.”

I stood with my feet together.

“Yeah. Writing and geometry. After that?”

“Sure thing. I’ll warm up a controller in the meantime. I could use the practice.”

He smiled. “You’ll need it.” He went upstairs and I went into the living room.

The dishwasher would run for about an hour, and that should drown out the game.

Charley finished his homework and proved that I still needed more practice. He mopped the floor with me.

Liz came downstairs and said something about how we shouldn’t play all night.

Dad came downstairs in a threadbare robe. “Mind if I cut in?”

He didn't smell like a bar, and he had shaved. “Sure,” I handed him, my controller. His robe was older than me. Quite a lot of energy went into turning back the clock on that ratty old thing. “Knock it off,” he said when he realized what I was doing. “Don’t bother with this old thing.”

“It looks good,” Charley said. “Better anyway.”

Dad smacked his lips. “Are there any cold cuts left?”

“No, I finished them off. I’ll pick more up tomorrow when I’m shopping.”

He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. “Just as well. My bed is calling anyway.” He got up off the couch. “Don’t keep Charley up all night. He’s got school.”

I nodded.

“Can you give Liz a ride to work tomorrow? I’m planning to go out with the boys, so I need the truck.”

“Sure,” I said. “No problem.” Lizzy was a part-time waitress at a family restaurant called Westerly’s.

I took the controller back. “Warn me when it’s ten, man,” I said to Charley, “It feels like it’s barely dinner time to me.” I was going to be up all night. Fixing the robe tired me out a little but not enough to knock me out.

When Charley went to bed, I searched online for car insurance. I didn’t want to walk into an insurance agent’s office without any idea of what to expect. Plus, there were terms like liability, uninsured motorist coverage and principal driver. The monthly premiums were all over the board. Liz had her license and Charley had a learner’s permit. They would be getting pulled over sooner or later. Dad was probably right about the insurance.

I still wasn’t tired so I walked around the house on my tiptoes. In the basement, under the stairs, was a Rubbermaid container of old photos. Inside that was a jewelry box. My mom’s old jewelry box. There wasn’t any jewelry in it. Ever. She didn’t wear jewelry. Now it held all the pictures of her that my dad had ever taken. She looked the same in all the pictures. It was no secret from us that our mom didn’t age. We inherited our secrets from her.

There was a wedding photo with a younger version of dad. Pictures of her in the hospital, there different times with there different newborns. There was a picture of her holding a pineapple with a paper umbrella and a straw coming out of it. She held her hand under it like it was for sale. The latest was her cutting a cake at my tenth birthday party. The oldest was her sitting on a dock with her feet in the water and the date was five years before I was born. 

I was getting close to the age mom, looked in the pictures, and I would look older than her someday. Some of the photos were yellowing so I turned them back, and the colors were all fresh. They didn’t take much energy. Tomorrow, I would buy a film scanner and make digital copies of all these. 

When it felt like bedtime, everyone else has been asleep for hours. I set my alarm for seven on my phone. It was Friday now, probably a good day to look for a wrecked car. I would need some more cash soon and restoring a car would sap enough energy to put my sleep schedule back on track.

While I was lying in bed, I thought about the first car I restored here. At the time it seemed logical to restore a ‘69 Ford Mustang Boss 429 I found in the paper for a few hundred dollars. The seller lived on a farm, and it was just something his kid bought with the intention of restoring, but he never had the time or money. He said that it was not a car people would pay big money for, so restoring it wouldn’t be profitable. It was drivable, so I brought it to the house. The Mustang sat on the curb in the rain for a week while I cleared room in the garage.

It took another week for me to put enough energy into the car to bring it back from the dead. I didn’t drive it during that week. She and I just sat in the garage. It took a lot out of me, and I was always tired and hungry that week. She grew younger while I grew exhausted. When I finally opened the garage door and started her, it sounded like an orchestra of thunder. She didn’t have insurance, but I peeled around town in that muscle car all day. The first place we went was McDonald’s because I was starving. When I went through the drive-thru, I had to turn off the engine to hear the speaker.

That week I brought her to a classic car show. One guy, Clyde, asked too many questions about the motor and specific parts he pointed to under the hood, but I had no idea how to answer. I’m not a gearhead. While he grilled me with questions, I thought maybe I should be restoring antiques instead. People probably wouldn’t ask so many questions. When Clyde asked if he could drive it around the parking lot, I tossed him the keys.

When he came back, he looked at me funny but offered me a smile and a beer even though I was seventeen and looked fifteen. He showed me his old Camaro and his ’69 Corvette then introduced me to his wife. She held a plastic cup with red fingernails the same color as the Camaro and the cup. Clyde told her about my Mustang, and she started in with the questions too. He shook his head at her.

That was my last car show.

Now, I restored cars less than five years old. They had high resale value, and people didn’t ask about engine displacement. Whatever that was.

I said a quick prayer for what I might find at the junk yards tomorrow. Maybe I would find a Lexus or one of the new Buicks. Something recently totaled in an accident was good for the money.

Chapter 03
The next morning my alarm went off at seven. At least, I assume it did.

Lizzy woke me up at ten by slamming doors all around the house. She could have been playing hide-and-seek with a cat, but we didn't have a cat. The sun shouldn’t even be up yet, but managed had my morning shower and some granola with flax milk. Then another two handfuls of granola. I’d just ruined my lunch.

“What time do you work?” I asked Lizzy when she was getting a bottle of water from the fridge.

She sighed. “Five thirty. I gotta be there for the dinner rush. Then I have to work until midnight because there’s a show downtown.”

“At the civic center?” I asked.

“Nah, at the park. A magic show or something. It’s some local guy who’s blowing up Youtube.” She put a lid on her bottle and leaned against the counter. “He’s a big dude, and he flies around, and does crazy shit with boomerangs. He’s actually kind of funny. He performed his whole show like a typical magician, then he does this trick where a volleyball is bouncing, whatever, then it stops midair and pops, and he looks like it was some kind of magical fluke. I actually laughed at that one.” She smiled while looking at the wall behind me. “Here’s the shopping list. I added a few things.”

“Coming with me?”

“Grocery shopping? No thanks.”

“I’ll buy you a donut.”

She stared at me hard. Donuts were what our mom used to bribe us to go grocery shopping with her.

Liz nodded, “Yeah, sure.”

I finished my granola and looked at her revised list. She used a brown pen. Who has brown pens? She wanted more sugary cereal and real milk. Lettuce, croutons, thousand island dressing, and canned salmon. “Are you on another salad kick?”

“So what if I am?”

“Nothing, salad is great. I’m gonna buy extra. How about those mini shrimp? Like those on your salad?”

“Just get whatever,” she rolled her eyes.

On the list, I circled her salad stuff with a regular black pen.

“Oh, crap. I have to call the insurance place first.” 

I looked up American Time Insurance on my phone and told them my make and model and walked out to the car and read them the VIN. The agent said that they would need to do a visual inspection since their records showed it was a totaled car but it would only take a few minutes. I told him I could be there in fifteen minutes. It was near the grocery store.

“Hey,” I shouted out the kitchen, “I have to stop at the insurance place so they can look at the car. It shouldn’t take long, and it’s near Cub’s.” Cub Foods was the grocery store. “Cool?”

“Nevermind then,” she shouted back. “Can you get me a Bavarian crème donut?”

“Only if you come with.”

She thought for a second. “It might rain. Not worth it.”

I grabbed an umbrella and headed out in the Lexus. By the time I got to the office, it was raining.

The insurance salesman's name was on the full-length glass door, "Billy Jefferson." Inside, there was enough room to open the door or stand at the receptionist's desk, but not both at the same time. His name plaque said, "Jeremy." Along the wall were a water cooler and two mugs, a couple of plastic chairs with a magazine table between them, but no magazines.

"Dawson?" Jeremy said.

I nodded.

"Great. I hope you didn't get too wet. Thanks for coming out on such short notice. If you want to go see Billy, head down the hall, it's at the end." Jeremy smiled the whole time and pointed away from the chairs.

I had to shut the door before I could walk down the hallway. There were only two doors, and there was a bathroom sink in one of them. "Thanks. It's not Minnesota rain, just falling water."

Jeremy patted his breast pocket. "Good to know. Thank you."

Billy was in his forties, shook my hand hard enough to jostle my shoulder, introduced himself, then grabbed his umbrella.

“So,” he said, “last year's Lexus ES 350. Good car?”

“She runs well and doesn’t talk back,” I said.

Billy laughed through his nose and ushered me out the door with his umbrella. “I’ve just got to make sure your car isn’t missing doors so you can’t claim it in a week. I have to check the V-I-N, odometer, ashtray.” He chuckled, “I do actually check the ashtray. Smokers have to pay a bit more. Do you smoke?”

“Nope. Don’t smoke.”

“Good for you. It's a nasty habit. I keep trying to get Jeremy to quit." He pointed back the way I cam. "You just met Jeremy. He smokes a pack a week. Which is better than he used to but it’s still gross." We walked up to my car under the umbrella, "This is yours? It looks amazing for a totaled car.”

“I restore cars. So I take care of them.” I stopped myself from talking. Too many people ask me questions like I am a mechanic.

The umbrella slipped in Billy's hand. “You must. This looks like it just rolled off the lot. Can I check the inside?”

“Sure.” I handed him the key fob, and he got in on the driver’s side. I ran around to the passenger’s seat.

Billy started the car, wrote a few things down, checked the ashtray, no butts. “What’s with the odometer?” he asked.

“What?”

He didn't smile and looked me straight in the eyes. “Has the odometer been tampered with?”

“I don’t think so. What’s wrong?”

He pointed at my dash. “It’s showing that the car has only eighty-eight miles. The report shows that the car was totaled out at six-thousand miles.”

My palms were sweaty. He was cut out for his job. Dad's suggestion of a real person for an insurance agent did not seem so smart now. “I didn’t do anything that would mess with the odometer. Maybe that part is broken. Do I need that fixed? I don’t plan on selling the car or anything.”

Billy relaxed a bit. “Show me how you did it. I won’t tell.”

I wiped my palms on my pants. "I don't know how it happened. It has been stuck at eight-eight since I got it."

He handed me my fob and smiled with his eyes and mouth. “Don’t sweat it. I have a pretty good idea of what you did.” He let that comment hang. "Come back inside where it's not raining. If you can call this rain."

I sat in the passenger's seat with my fob. “Do I need to get it fixed?”

Billy shrugged and kept smiling. “I said don’t sweat it. We’ll get the forms filled out. What should I put for mileage?” He stood under his umbrella.

I opened my door and stood in the rain. “What?” I asked.

“A one-year-old car would probably have," Billy wobbled his head left and right, "eight to twelve-thousand. We’ll split the difference. All right with you?”

“Uh, I guess.”

“Let’s head inside." He nodded toward the office door. "You must be getting soaked. Hey, don’t sweat it.”

“What am I not supposed to be sweating?” I asked.

“I know what you did to the car.” He smiled with half of his mouth and winked. 

I didn't know people still winked. “Oh?”

We went back inside and sat around his desk. His office was more spacious than the reception area and had no water cooler. Billy put his hands flat down in front of his keyboard. “I’ll come clean if you will.” He nodded at me. “When someone lies to me, I know they're lying, and I can see the truth immediately. It’s a gift. I know you reversed the accident damage to this car because you lied to me. However," he nodded to the side, "that also reversed the odometer. This car looks like it drove off the sales lot because you reversed the wear-and-tear until it was in the same condition as when it rolled off the factory line. How was that?”

“Holy crap! You’ve got to be kidding me.” The door was wide open. Actually, there was no door, just bare hinges. Jeremy was at his desk and waved a little.

Billy shook his head and smiled. “It’s a gift that comes in handy with my job. I would have made a great detective too.”

This was the game I played with Charley. “You could have been a reporter and found every political scandal,” I said.

"Hahahaha, oh ho. I don’t think I could handle ALL those lies. So, you’ve got that gift, huh?”

“Humor? I guess so.” I dared a little smile.

Billy's face blossomed. His smile went from his lips to his forehead. “That too. Can I see? I mean if that’s all right.” He nodded toward a window where we could see my car. "Can you only do cars?"

“Lemme see.” I bit my lip and looked around. There was a pair of sunglasses on his desk, so I snapped them in half and handed a half across the desk. Then with a little energy, I reversed the damage, and Billy’s half disappeared. "Here you go," I handed him the glasses for inspection.

His mouth and eyes were wide open. “You can do THAT with a car?”

“It takes a lot longer, but yes.” I was smiling almost as much as Billy.

He reclined in his chair, which hit the wall behind him. “I want to throw a couple of ideas your way, Dawson.” 

"Umm." My palms were sweating again.

Billy waved his hands down. “Let me enter your vehicle info here, and you relax a minute." He turned to his computer. Everyone who insures a Lexus less than a decade old gets their car insured against stuff like vandalism and hit and runs." He smiled and cocked an eyebrow at me, "I suspect you don't want to pay for that.”

I nodded a little and let him work for a few minutes.

“I don’t want to beat around the bush." He turned away from his computer. “You’ve got something special, just like me. When did you get it?”

“I…what?”

“When did you get your gift? I was twenty-four. It happened to me when I was working in New York. I was actually AT work. When I woke up in my office, people thought it was the damnedest thing that I hadn’t been to work in three days, but no one thought to call me or anything. What about you?”

I sucked in my lips. “I’ve always been able to do this, since I was, like, ten. I got it from my mom. My dad didn’t let us use them. Mine started up right before my mom left. I think they weird my dad out.”

“Siblings?” Billy asked. 

“Oh, yeah, I…umm. This isn’t really something…”

“No! No, I understand. How about you and your family meet me for dinner? I’d love to talk with you all.”

“Yeah, uh thanks. My dad would probably freak out, and I don’t know you that well or anything.” I wiped my hands on my pants for about the fifth time.

Billy held his hands up submissively. “You’re right. You’re right. Let me get this insurance info processed.” I heard the printer in the lobby whir up. “I’m sorry, I haven’t met more than a handful of people with our gifts. It’s kind of exciting. I never met anyone who inherited them though. I didn’t know that was possible. Is there anything else you need from me?”

I stood up. "I don't think so."

“I’m sorry, we got off on the right foot. I mean wrong foot. Earlier Jeremy and I were discussing the whole right-brain left-brain thing, and I was thinking about the right-brain versus left-brain thing when I said that and I just tripped all over my words." Billy shook his head and looked down. "Seriously, Dawson, can I tell you what I’m thinking? If you hear me out, I’ll respect your decision no matter what. If you want to only think of me as your agent, I’ll do that, but I want you to hear what I’ve got to say.”

“I’m not promising anything.” I crossed my arms. I read somewhere that people who cross their arms seemed defensive. “What did you have in mind?”

“Thanks, Dawson. Okay, since I’m in insurance, I see a lot of late model stuff get wrecked, and my company pays it out. Then the original gets sent to the junkyard or ship scrapyard or auction company or whatever. These things are perfect for you. Restore a few and voila! You have a practically new car or truck or boat. With me so far?”

I nodded but kept my arms crossed. "I already do that."

“Great. We're already on the same page. Now, I’m not stupid enough to refer you to cases I’m handling, but I can view cases across the country. Last month I saw the case of a yacht in Florida that hit another boat. The yacht still floats but due to the cosmetic damage and potential structural damage we had to scrap it. You could have bought that for a song, fixed it up and it would have sold it for one hundred times what you paid. Now that ships is probably a collection of spare windows and fold down cocktail tables. It was less than two years old, Dawson. The sticker price on that was over one-point-two-million. You could have traded your Lexus for that ship, and you could have traded that ship for a mansion on a lake.”

Billy glanced at my hands, and I realized my arms weren’t crossed anymore. 

“I know what you’re thinking,” he said. “The flip side is that I want to get a referral bonus. I'll know what you buy and sell and I just want twenty-five percent.”

“What about what happened earlier?" I pointed toward my car. "Someone is going to inspect a car or a yacht, and the odometer won’t be right, or the clock inside will be suspicious, or something. You found me out in ten seconds.”

“That’s why you have me. I’ll tell you what people look for before you sell. For example, and I’m telling you this in good faith. If you fix a car, you need to report that the main computer was replaced and how many miles were on the original. The official report will show that the displayed mileage is short by that many miles. I think there’s also something they can do with a computer that adds miles to an odometer but it can’t subtract.”

I crossed my arms again. “What about a yacht?”

Billy smirked. “Ambitious. With any yacht made in the last decade, you have to correct the internal transponder. Black box. That’s an easy setting on the main control panel. It’s as easy as setting the time on a VCR. Wait, people don’t use VCRs anymore. It’s as easy as a coffee maker. Want to know the specifics of an airplane? Jet liner? Golf cart?” Billy laughed and slapped a file cabinet. "All the procedures for all those things are right here."

“Why do you know that about planes?”

Billy put his hands in his lap. “I used to be an adjuster. I handled a lot of the huge, and I mean HUGE, claims. If there was something suspicious and the company didn’t want to pay up, they would call me over, and I’d find out what happened. I’d ask the client a few simple questions, and if they were the cause of the claim and not the victim, I’d know. Then I’d prove it, and the company wouldn’t pay.”

I crossed my arms. “Why are you in Mankato? You used to be in New York handling million dollar yachts, and now you’re here.”

He looked at the ceiling and inhaled for a couple of seconds. He wasn't smiling. “Long story short, a mob boss told me to leave New York. Otherwise, I’d still be there. As fate would have it, Jeremy was in New York for training, we hit it off, and the rest is history as they say.” He finished with a small smile on his mouth, but not his eyes.

I did not say anything for a while. My arms were still crossed. “Let me think about all this.”

Billy stood up. “Sure! Take all the time you need.” He handed me a business card. “My phone number is on your insurance card, but this has my cell. Let me know if you want to meet up for lunch. How about tomorrow?”

“Yeah, let’s plan to talk tomorrow. That’s fine. No promises though.”

He shook my hand, forearm, and shoulder as before. “Don’t forget your insurance cards,” he called after me, “they’re on the printer.”

Jeremy handed me the insurance cards. "Thanks for coming in."

I grabbed my umbrella from the reception area and walked into the rain without opening it. 

What would have happened if I had used an online insurance company? I wouldn’t have met Billy. Was it a good idea to get into a deal with him? Could I trust him? What was the risk? What was his risk?

I put the damp insurance cards in the glove box and looked at the inside of the Lexus. When I first got it, the passenger seat was lying limp on the back seats, the steering wheel was bent backward, and the leather covering had two big tears. The back seats were cut up especially behind the passenger seat, and the windows were intimate with the floor mats. One hard weekend later and it was the most expensive car anyone in my family had ever owned.

For two years after the Mustang, I brought six cars and one pickup truck back to life. It had been fabulous for income, and it wasn’t suspicious for someone my age to fix cars. This thing with Billy was a chance to raise the stakes. For good and bad. Billy was the unknown factor. 